CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

* [Branch Naming Conventions](#branch-naming-conventions)
* [Commit Message Conventions](#commit-message-conventions)
    * [Goals](#goals)
    * [Generating CHANGELOG.md](#generating-changelogmd)
        * [Recognizing unimportant commits](#recognizing-unimportant-commits)
        * [Provide more information when browsing the history](#provide-more-information-when-browsing-the-history)
    * [Format of the commit message](#format-of-the-commit-message)
        * [Referencing issues](#referencing-issues)
        * [Allowed `<type>`](#allowed-type)
        * [Allowed `<scope>`](#allowed-scope)
        * [`<subject>`](#subject)
        * [Examples](#examples)
* [Python Code Style Reference](#python-code-style-reference)

Branch Naming Conventions
==========================

* Choose short and descriptive names
* Prefix branch names with corresponding issue numbers
* Use hyphens to separate words
* Use lower case only

Example: `123-my-feature`.

Commit Message Conventions
==========================

These rules are adopted
from [the AngularJS commit conventions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/)
.

Goals
-----

* allow generating CHANGELOG.md by script
* allow ignoring commits by git bisect (not important commits like formatting)
* provide better information when browsing the history

Generating CHANGELOG.md
-----------------------
We use these two sections in changelog: new features and bug fixes.
This list could be generated by script when doing a release. Along with links to related commits.
Of course you can edit this change log before actual release, but it could generate the skeleton.

List of all subjects (first lines in commit message) since last release:

```bash
git log <last tag> HEAD --pretty=format:%s
```

New features in this release

```bash
git log <last release> HEAD --grep feature
```

### Recognizing unimportant commits

These are formatting changes (adding/removing spaces/empty lines, indentation), missing semi colons, comments. So when
you are looking for some change, you can ignore these commits - no logic change inside this commit.

When bisecting, you can ignore these by:

```bash
git bisect skip $(git rev-list --grep irrelevant <good place> HEAD)
```

### Provide more information when browsing the history

This would add kinda “context” information.
Look at these messages (taken from last few angular’s commits):

* Fix small typo in docs widget (tutorial instructions)
* Fix test for scenario.Application - should remove old iframe
* docs - various doc fixes
* docs - stripping extra new lines
* Replaced double line break with single when text is fetched from Google
* Added support for properties in documentation

All of these messages try to specify where is the change. But they don’t share any convention...

Look at these messages:

* fix comment stripping
* fixing broken links
* Bit of refactoring
* Check whether links do exist and throw exception
* Fix sitemap include (to work on case sensitive linux)

Are you able to guess what’s inside ? These messages miss place specification...
So maybe something like parts of the code: docs, docs-parser, compiler, scenario-runner, …

I know, you can find this information by checking which files had been changed, but that’s slow. And when looking in git
history I can see all of us tries to specify the place, only missing the convention.

---

Format of the commit message
----------------------------

```
[#<issue1>] [#<issue2>] <type>(<scope>): <subject>
```

A commit message should contain one line and should not be longer than 100 characters. This allows the message to be
easier to read on github as well as in various git tools.

### Referencing issues

Related issue(s), if any, should be listed in the beginning of a commit message.

### Allowed `<type>`

This type should be assigned from the perspective of a customer, since these types end up in the changelog.

* feat (feature)
* fix (bug fix)
* docs (documentation)
* style (formatting, missing semi colons, …)
* refactor
* test (when adding missing tests)
* chore (CI, builds, maintainance, …)

### Allowed `<scope>`

Scope could be anything specifying place of the commit change.

Use a microservice name (or comma-separated microservice names, or a corresponding folder name like `deployment`
, `commons` or `scripts`) as a scope.

Undefined (omitted) scope means that commit changes a lot of components at once (although ideally commits and PRs should
not be huge).

### `<subject>`

Subject line contains succinct description of the change.

* use imperative, present tense: “change” not “changed” nor “changes”
* don't capitalize first letter
* no dot (.) at the end

Examples
--------

```
#123 feat: anonymize tattoos and moles
```

```
#456 fix(face_generator): remove unnecessary highlights from faces
```

```
chore(deployment): make a new Docker image 
```

# Python Code Style Reference
## Tests
All new features and bug fixes must be tested. 
If you add a new feature, please add unit and functional tests.
If you fix a bug, add tests that check if it was fixed. 

A "Best of the Best Practices" [(BOBP) guide to developing in Python](https://gist.github.com/sloria/7001839).

## Formatting

To format code we use [black](https://github.com/psf/black).

Use one of the following commands to format your changes before committing them:

* ```bash
  black <python-file name>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m black <python-file name>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m black $(git status | grep "\.py$" | awk -F"modified:   " '{print $2}')
  ```

## PEP8 complaince

To validate code's PEP8 complaince we use [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/).

Use one of the following commands to check complaince with PEP8 for your changes before committing them:

* ```bash
  flake8 <python-file name>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m flake8 <python-file name>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m flake8 $(git status | grep "\.py$" | awk -F"modified:   " '{print $2}')
  ```

## Type annotations

We use type annotation for most of our code.
> **_NOTE:_** Do NOT use `Generics` and `parameterized generics` in annotations.
> Use classical syntax.

For `numpy` arrays type annotations, please see [numpy.typing](https://numpy.org/devdocs/reference/typing.html)

| do this                            | do NOT do this                     |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------|
| `Dict[str, int]`                   | `dict[str, int]`                   |
| `Tuple[List[Dict[str, int]], ...]` | `tuple[list[dict[str, int]], ...]` |
| `npt.NDArray[np.uint8]`            | `np.ndarray`                       |

Commit message:

chore: Add note about black version

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

* [Branch Naming Conventions](#branch-naming-conventions)
* [Commit Message Conventions](#commit-message-conventions)
    * [Goals](#goals)
    * [Generating CHANGELOG.md](#generating-changelogmd)
        * [Recognizing unimportant commits](#recognizing-unimportant-commits)
        * [Provide more information when browsing the history](#provide-more-information-when-browsing-the-history)
    * [Format of the commit message](#format-of-the-commit-message)
        * [Referencing issues](#referencing-issues)
        * [Allowed `<type>`](#allowed-type)
        * [Allowed `<scope>`](#allowed-scope)
        * [`<subject>`](#subject)
        * [Examples](#examples)
* [Python Code Style Reference](#python-code-style-reference)

Branch Naming Conventions
==========================

* Choose short and descriptive names
* Prefix branch names with corresponding issue numbers
* Use hyphens to separate words
* Use lower case only

Example: `123-my-feature`.

Commit Message Conventions
==========================

These rules are adopted
from [the AngularJS commit conventions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/)
.

Goals
-----

* allow generating CHANGELOG.md by script
* allow ignoring commits by git bisect (not important commits like formatting)
* provide better information when browsing the history

Generating CHANGELOG.md
-----------------------
We use these two sections in changelog: new features and bug fixes.
This list could be generated by script when doing a release. Along with links to related commits.
Of course you can edit this change log before actual release, but it could generate the skeleton.

List of all subjects (first lines in commit message) since last release:

```bash
git log <last tag> HEAD --pretty=format:%s
```

New features in this release

```bash
git log <last release> HEAD --grep feature
```

### Recognizing unimportant commits

These are formatting changes (adding/removing spaces/empty lines, indentation), missing semi colons, comments. So when
you are looking for some change, you can ignore these commits - no logic change inside this commit.

When bisecting, you can ignore these by:

```bash
git bisect skip $(git rev-list --grep irrelevant <good place> HEAD)
```

### Provide more information when browsing the history

This would add kinda “context” information.
Look at these messages (taken from last few angular’s commits):

* Fix small typo in docs widget (tutorial instructions)
* Fix test for scenario.Application - should remove old iframe
* docs - various doc fixes
* docs - stripping extra new lines
* Replaced double line break with single when text is fetched from Google
* Added support for properties in documentation

All of these messages try to specify where is the change. But they don’t share any convention...

Look at these messages:

* fix comment stripping
* fixing broken links
* Bit of refactoring
* Check whether links do exist and throw exception
* Fix sitemap include (to work on case sensitive linux)

Are you able to guess what’s inside ? These messages miss place specification...
So maybe something like parts of the code: docs, docs-parser, compiler, scenario-runner, …

I know, you can find this information by checking which files had been changed, but that’s slow. And when looking in git
history I can see all of us tries to specify the place, only missing the convention.

---

Format of the commit message
----------------------------

```
[#<issue1>] [#<issue2>] <type>(<scope>): <subject>
```

A commit message should contain one line and should not be longer than 100 characters. This allows the message to be
easier to read on github as well as in various git tools.

### Referencing issues

Related issue(s), if any, should be listed in the beginning of a commit message.

### Allowed `<type>`

This type should be assigned from the perspective of a customer, since these types end up in the changelog.

* feat (feature)
* fix (bug fix)
* docs (documentation)
* style (formatting, missing semi colons, …)
* refactor
* test (when adding missing tests)
* chore (CI, builds, maintainance, …)

### Allowed `<scope>`

Scope could be anything specifying place of the commit change.

Use a microservice name (or comma-separated microservice names, or a corresponding folder name like `deployment`
, `commons` or `scripts`) as a scope.

Undefined (omitted) scope means that commit changes a lot of components at once (although ideally commits and PRs should
not be huge).

### `<subject>`

Subject line contains succinct description of the change.

* use imperative, present tense: “change” not “changed” nor “changes”
* don't capitalize first letter
* no dot (.) at the end

Examples
--------

```
#123 feat: anonymize tattoos and moles
```

```
#456 fix(face_generator): remove unnecessary highlights from faces
```

```
chore(deployment): make a new Docker image 
```

# Python Code Style Reference
## Tests
All new features and bug fixes must be tested. 
If you add a new feature, please add unit and functional tests.
If you fix a bug, add tests that check if it was fixed. 

A "Best of the Best Practices" [(BOBP) guide to developing in Python](https://gist.github.com/sloria/7001839).

## Formatting

To format code we use [black](https://github.com/psf/black).
> **_NOTE:_** Make sure you are using the same version of the `black` as in the `Format`GitHub actions.
> Different versions of `black` could format the code differently. 

Use one of the following commands to format your changes before committing them:

* ```bash
  black <python-file name or package path>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m black <python-file name or package path>
  ```

## PEP8 complaince

To validate code's PEP8 complaince we use [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/).

Use one of the following commands to check complaince with PEP8 for your changes before committing them:

* ```bash
  flake8 <python-file name or package path>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m flake8 <python-file name or package path>
  ```

## Imports sorting

To sort imports we use [isort](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/).

Use one of the following commands to check complaince with PEP8 for your changes before committing them:

* ```bash
  isort <python-file name or package path>
  ```
* ```bash
  python -m isort <python-file name or package path>
  ```

## Type annotations

We use type annotation for most of our code.
> **_NOTE:_** Do NOT use `Generics` and `parameterized generics` in annotations.
> Use classical syntax.

For `numpy` arrays type annotations, please see [numpy.typing](https://numpy.org/devdocs/reference/typing.html)

| do this                            | do NOT do this                     |
|:-----------------------------------|:-----------------------------------|
| `Dict[str, int]`                   | `dict[str, int]`                   |
| `Tuple[List[Dict[str, int]], ...]` | `tuple[list[dict[str, int]], ...]` |
| `npt.NDArray[np.uint8]`            | `np.ndarray`                       |
